+++
date = '2025-01-26T15:33:49+08:00'
draft = false 
title = 'Love, Simplicity, and Long-Term Effort'
+++

A friend recently shared an interview with Kobe Bryant, where he explained why he started training at 4 am.

>You wake up at 3, train at 4. 4-6. Come home, eat breakfast, relax. Now you’re back at it again 9-11. Relax … Back at it again, 2-4. Now you’re back at it again, 7-9. By year 5 & 6, it doesn’t matter what kind of work they do in the summer - they’re never gonna catch up.

To me, this demonstrates how habits, compounded over time, can lead to dramatic transformations.

--

A couple of days ago, I was talking with a friend during a hike:

1. I graduated from a private vocational college, and my intelligence is average. Looking back, I realize the internet motivated me to learn. It felt like I had suddenly discovered that almost anything— even things considered taboo—could be found online. My curiosity was sparked, and that small flame has never gone out.I started reading extensively and writing occasionally, a habit I've maintained to this day. I see that some of my peers continued to improve, but most remained at the same level.
2. My friend said he rarely works overtime. I jokingly replied that I'm always working overtime. To me, activities like reading, learning English, writing, watching YouTube, listening to podcasts, exercising—even hiking—are all part of my work. These activities help me grow. And when I grow, my company, products, and business grow too. Most importantly, I enjoy all of it.

--

“Dripping water wears away stone” and “Little strokes fell great oaks” are just two of many idioms that emphasize how perseverance pays off. However, they often overlook two key elements: loving what you do and finding a simple way to execute it.

1. Find something you truly love.
2. Find a simple method to do it.
3. Stick with it long-term.

This straightforward principle has been immensely helpful to me. Whether it’s life, health, learning, work, or business, it applies to almost everything.